good evening I'm Adrian arceneaux
tonight the northern Alberta floods
leave one dead and thousands displaced
as well I never thought I'd ever seen I
don't know what's gonna happen next
in the middle of the pandemic Alberta
lives some physical distancing to save
what's left
I'm Andrew Chang also tonight new hope
for a corona virus treatment room
desappear has a clear-cut significant
positive effect the drug showing strong
results in the US and why it's not easy
to get in Canada
I don't know legally to the crew she
start back Canadians are driving a whole
lot less so why is it so hard to get an
insurance rebate seniors have been
hardest hit in this pandemic tonight
we're answering their questions
why is Ontario so slow to test all
seniors and care workers why I'm at
greater risk 4019 our doctors are
standing by this is the National
[Music]
we begin tonight with some breaking news
an international search effort is
underway this hour for a Canadian
military helicopter that disappeared off
the coast of Greece the helicopter is a
CH 148 cyclone serving in the NATO joint
task force operation reassurance it
reportedly went down about 80 kilometers
off the coast of the Greek island of
saif ellonija in the mediterranean sea
david common has been following the
developments tonight David well Adrian
even as the world shelters from Koba 19
military operations have continued
abroad and tonight Greek media say a
Canadian helicopter with six people on
board has gone down in the sea during a
routine operation and at least one body
tragically has been found helicopter
operations at sea are always risky but
Canada's relatively new cyclone
helicopters are considered some of the
best in the world off the coast of
Greece ones been busy flying from the
frigate HM CS Fredericton part of an
international NATO operation to counter
Russian influence and aggression in
Eastern Europe Russian submarine
activity is picked up in the region and
the helicopter is key to tracking them
the idea it was likely this helicopter
seen on the ship a month ago that today
in the Mediterranean had something go
deeply wrong contact was lost said the
Canadian Armed Forces in a tweet NATO
announcing a multi ship and air
search-and-rescue operation being
conducted the cyclone is designed to
float on relatively calm seas and
typically carries a crew of four along
with life rafts and survival suits but
it can fit many more and can operate far
from its mothership alone over the open
ocean taking about the crew
the Mediterranean is a better place to
go down than the North Atlantic but a
crest at nighttime doesn't make a
search-and-rescues this scenario very
easy to prosecute you can bet that every
available helicopter aircraft and ship
in the area from Allied navies is
participating in this search it's a very
close community but there are some
things they know as they search for
survivors the chances of finding them
goes down with every passing hour
Adrienne all right David thank you
turning now to the severe flooding
disaster in northern Alberta some 13,000
people had been driven from their homes
in Fort McMurray and less than an hour
away Fort McCoy first nation is mourning
one of its own two men from the
community ran into trouble yesterday
near trapping grounds about 50
kilometres north of Fort maga makai
along the Athabasca River a statement
from the Fort makai First Nation said
they were airlifted to a hospital but
the older of the two later died of his
injuries now in Fort McMurray there are
no reported deaths so far but the sheer
scale of the disaster is staggering
Refugee Canyon takes us there tonight
hey go easy keep guard for Jessica
Raymond it's all been overwhelming I
just feel like I'm numb at this point I
think I've had my emotions already
because after I talked to the insurance
adjuster and I realized I have no
coverage whatsoever her wedding was
already postponed due to the pandemic
now she has a new nightmare my wedding
dress is sitting in my house I have no
insurance
because I live on a floodplain and the
water level is above my crash portal
like everywhere else Fort McMurray was
already dealing with Corbett 19 when
this happened this hotel shut down due
to a lack of business now houses
evacuate like Henry or sob or like the
Falls D I came here
you know I wanted to go straight to the
elevator and I saw some guys waiting I
have to stay back one person at the time
you know - you don't touch these any how
are you getting to your room you want to
quickly wash some of those coronavirus
restrictions have now been lifted to
allow people to work together to save
what they can while others wait for news
on the homes they've had to abandon I
have my books my PC for Google classroom
and stuff and I'm doing really well
today Fort McMurray mayor said the
number of buildings affected is now half
that of the 2016 wildfire while the
premier is hopeful the massive raft of
ice that caused the flooding is starting
to shrink we are encouraged to see the
ice jams are beginning to clear on both
the Athabasca and the piece rivers and
that water volumes are starting to go
down and Fort McMurray continues to face
it together
Rafa Buchanan CBC News Fort McMurray
now the Fort McMurray disaster only adds
more financial stress to a province
struggling to sell its oil and now due
to kovat 19 outbreaks at two major
processing plants struggling to sell its
meat we're watching with interest and
and concern some of the issues facing
meat meat producers and and the supply
chain across the agricultural industry
well as our Canadians tired of lining up
for groceries that only get more
expensive and the massive kovin 19
outbreak at Alberta's Cargill meat
processing plant won't help Alison
Dempster looks at what the pandemic
means for Canada's meat supply usually
calving season is a hopeful time of year
for sherry kapa thorne Barnes not this
spring she's
the market for her calves is about to
dry up our business is based on natural
cycles the environment and working with
the land and so we don't have the
ability to be able to say stop calving
cows or we're not gonna plant right now
because we're not sure what the markets
gonna look like in October a backlog of
cattle is building as meatpacking plants
struggle with kovat 19 outbreaks among
their workers the Cargill plant has been
closed for a week and a half it's going
to start reopening with just one shift
next week but one of its major buyers
McDonald's Canada has announced it will
get its beef from the US for the time
being McDonald's actually has as the
only place to get beef in Canada which
is why it it had to go to the US and
other places to get beef consumers at
the supermarket may find less selection
but experts don't expect major shortages
there if you do prices may go up pork
producers are also struggling with
bottlenecks a farm on Prince Edward
Island was recently forced to euthanize
hogs because there was no place to send
them for slaughter beef and pork
industry groups are asking for help from
Ottawa today the prime minister said the
government is working with industry but
he offered few details we need to make
sure that those supply chains can keep
functioning but we also need to make
sure that the people who work in those
supply chains and will continue to need
to work in difficult circumstances over
the coming weeks and months as we
continue to battle kovat 19 are kept
safe
ranchers won't reap the benefits of a
pricier BBQ season instead they're
bracing for rocky months ahead Allyson
Dempster CBC News Calgary if you are
lucky enough to have retirement savings
your jaw likely dropped the last time
you checked on them
Canadians are heavily invested in the
oil sector and it's obviously taking a
hit
Aaron Collins takes a closer look at the
oil patch is astonishing first quarter
losses and when we might see a recovery
floodwaters have the de facto capital of
Canada's oil patch underwater today a
very different kind of disaster has the
companies that fuel Fort McMurray
economy underwater - it's no secret that
Co vid 19 has been devastating for
Canada's oil patch this week a first
glimpse at just how bad things are
today Synovus Energy announced losses of
1.8 billion dollars in the first quarter
Huskie lost 1.7 billion
yesterday vermillion Energy disclosed
losses totaling 1.3 billion analysts say
the losses will continue to pile up due
to an unprecedented crash in global
demand but they say the bad news can't
last forever and there's gonna be a lot
more certainty in terms of the future
direction until then it won't just be
oil and gas companies that feel the
financial bite of this downturn most
Canadians who have an RRSP or a mutual
fund are also invested in the oil patch
and it's unclear future but amidst that
uncertainty some glimmers of hope Scott
darling shut in his first oil well
decades ago now 1.7 billion dollars in
federal cash to decommission more wells
could mean darling is one of the lucky
few in the patch that could be busy in
the coming months it's not gonna save
the industry but it will help out to
hopefully put some people to work and it
seems like fairly fast but most of the
patch is struggling mightily for his
part Alberta's premier continues to
press the federal government for as much
as 30 billion dollars in credit to be
extended to the struggling sector
obviously all of our energy companies
are hemorrhaging cash right now and a
bigger response is needed the Canada's
oil patch was already struggling to keep
the lights on in calgary's towers before
this pandemic arrived now that it has it
could be years before they fill up again
Aaron Collins CBC News Calgary well the
US Food and Drug Administration is
expected to give emergency approval to a
potential kovat 19 treatment brem
desappear originally created for ebola
is showing some promise in early
clinical testing the code Opia has more
on the findings as an ebola drug REM
desappear fell out of use because of
minimal
says it's now being tested for the
coronavirus in a large study involving
10 countries led by the US government's
National Institutes of Health whose boss
says the results were so promising they
had to be shared
immediately the data shows that Rome de
Sevilla has a clear-cut significant
positive effect in diminishing the time
to recovery
when REM des aveer was tested alongside
a placebo drug on more than a thousand
severe coronavirus patients those on a
placebo recovered on average in 15 days
for those unarmed a severe it was
quicker just 11 days the death rate for
REM de severe patients was lower than
placebo patients the data has neither
been published nor peer-reviewed still
it was enough for an independent panel
monitoring the research to stop the
trial whenever you have clear-cut
evidence that a drug works you have an
ethical obligation to immediately let
the people who are in the placebo group
know so that they could have access and
all of the other trials that are taking
place now have a new standard of care
there are still more than 20 other
clinical trials underway a smaller one
published today in this prestigious
Journal had inconclusive results this
infectious disease specialist says
that's to be expected in drug trials but
the findings released by Washington are
significant I think it's a sentinel
moment in in this epidemic but of course
part of me still also wants to say like
I really want to see the data as well
the question for Canada is what now rim
D severe is not approved for use in this
country though the maker Gilead is
providing it to hospitals on
compassionate grounds but Health Canada
says the maker has been overwhelmed by
requests Vica doe Pia CBC News Toronto
now those who recover from kovat 19
should develop antibodies key to
reopening may be figuring out how many
people caught the virus widespread
antibody testing is underway in the
States and our Susan ormiston got a
first-hand look oh hi dr. Bergstrom I'm
Susan ormiston week
to a DC medical clinic to get a rapid
test for kovat antibodies are you
getting a lot of people testing 400 of
these I believe now you can get one here
even without symptoms how much do you
need some employers are asking for it in
order to return to work very similar to
the mono test or the flu test or we also
use this for strep test the u.s. is
ramping up testing trying to double it
to find out where corona virus lurked
and we didn't know in my test there's no
evidence of either IgG or IgM antibodies
indicating to me that you have not had
this illness enough to have built
antibodies but this other sample from
another patient did show positive do you
worry that there's a false sense of
security yes I have a lot of patients
who want to get this test to see if it's
okay to be around their elderly parents
or taking care of a sick loved one and I
am very careful to say that their
behavior no matter what the result is
should never change they still need to
wear masks they still need to be
socially distancing and they still need
to be washing their hands we do know the
virus struck more people than we thought
New York recently reported nearly 14
percent may have had the virus even with
mild or no symptoms but still concerns
over the test reliability many of them
are out there that have not been
validated but a few have been validated
by the FDA a new large trial underway at
the National Institute of Health will
test blood samples from 10,000 Americans
spread right now first results perhaps
early June will project how many had it
but not if they're immune the positivity
alone that person it's protected from
the disease
that's a next step Susan ormiston CBC
News Washington
okay good time to bring in dr. Isaac BOE
gosh and infectious diseases specialist
here in Toronto so dr. bow gosh given
the uncertainty what do we expect
antibody testing to reliably show us and
how much stock should we put in it
now unfortunately we're not entirely
sure of the many antibody tests out
there which ones are reliable and which
ones aren't so it's hard to know what
the strong horse is and in fact Canada
has appropriately dragged its heels to
approve these tests and to use these
tests widely because we're not entirely
sure what to make of the existing ones I
think in the coming week or weeks we'll
have a better understanding of which
ones to use and we'll probably start to
see more and more testing here in Canada
one of the issues is you know let's say
a test is positive and it's truly a
positive test what we don't know now is
to what extent is that person immune to
Coba 19 and and if they are immune for
how long will that person be immune so
there still are a lot of unanswered
question okay insightful chat as always
dr. bill gosh thanks for your time thank
you Canada has passed another terrible
marker more than 3000 people have now
died and the number of new infections
continues to climb there are more than
51 thousand cases across the country
Quebec saw 837 new infections today but
there are some signs of progress Ontario
reported its lowest number of new cases
in three weeks and some provinces have
their sights set on reopening today we
are announcing the restoration of safe
services Manitoba's premier says the
province will start easing restrictions
Monday allowing some non-essential
businesses to open their doors like
dentists clothing stores hair salons and
restaurant patios campgrounds golf
courses and playgrounds will reopen and
elective surgeries will start back up
but it won't be business as usual for
now it'll be a new normal
travel restrictions will remain in place
for the time being we are still
restricting gatherings to no more than
10 people pii announced today schools
will not be reopening this year but
starting Friday people from different
households will be allowed to gather in
groups no bigger than five as long as
they're outside and six feet apart we
can't greet people with a hug or a kiss
or a handshake Quebec the hardest-hit
province is opening most daycares and
elementary schools in May
and the province announced today it will
lift travel restrictions over the month
new brunswick has also started lifting
some of its restrictions and here's why
federal modeling released this week
shows New Brunswick has not only managed
to flatten the curve but avoid it
altogether no new kovat cases for eleven
days straight and of the 118 cases in a
scene all but four have recovered and no
one has died
and consider this New Brunswick is home
to one of the oldest populations in this
country it's home to a struggling health
care system and it borders hard-hit
Quebec still as Harry Foristell explains
the province is so far weathering this
pandemic virtually unscathed consider it
a reward for good behavior after six
weeks of lockdown a blissful taste of
freedom as the province lifts some
restrictions within ten minutes of the
announcement my phone started ringing
New Brunswick has so far weathered the
Cova 19th storm without a single death
attributed to the virus and only a
handful of hospitalizations demographics
certainly helped a largely rural
province New Brunswick lacks the crowded
urban centers and major airports that
help disease spreads so quickly
even so kovat warns like this still
anticipated in influx of patients based
on the provinces aging population and we
know we knew then that you know this
virus likes to latch itself in to the
elderly population especially and that
the overall outcomes amongst seniors are
bad
long-term care centers were especially
vulnerable and acted quickly to keep
visitors out and test employees so while
the coronavirus stocks nursing homes in
Ontario Quebec and Nova Scotia it hasn't
gained a toehold here we took action
quick and soon and we and we acted on
those things in the best interest of our
residents safety of our staff safety we
are saying if you've traveled
internationally please stay away from
school
another factor protecting the province
the decision to close schools on March
13th the government acted quickly and
proactively took it seriously and closed
things down like schools and and
implemented social distancing early and
then the population clearly had trust in
government and went along with it
there's no question New Brunswick did it
the right way despite that success
public health officials are warning New
Brunswickers to stay vigilant another
wave of kovat 19 could strike before the
year is out Harry for Estelle CBC News
Fredericton a worker an Amazon warehouse
north of Calgary is sounding the alarm
over a growing number of koban 19 cases
the tech giant reported a positive case
on April 12th but an employee says at
least four more cases have been
confirmed since then they're calling on
Amazon to shut down the facility and
sanitize the warehouse
dozens rallied at the Alberta
legislature today protestors are
demanding an end to kovat 19
restrictions saying people need to get
back to work no word yet on whether
anyone was ticketed for breaking
physical distancing rules some Canadians
are voicing their concern after
receiving a controversial newspaper in
their mailbox unsolicited the Epoch
Times published a conspiracy theory
about the origin of the corona virus and
China's role in s Katie Nicholson
explains that has many worried about the
consequences I was disgusted I was
actually I'm horrified this postal union
representative was so upset by this
front page of The Epoch Times that he
filed a special request to ask that
postal workers not deliver it we feel
the front cover is promoting xenophobia
towards the Asian community it also
could put some of our Asian letter
carriers at risk the Minister rejected
that request saying it does not appear
to meet the required criteria of the
offense of wilful promotion of hatred as
established in the Criminal Code of
Canada the Epoch Times was founded by
Fallon gong practitioners the spiritual
movement persecuted in China and at
loggerheads with China's ruling
Communist Party those who study China
aren't surprised to see the paper seized
on the pandemic to take aim at Beijing
there is so much bad blood that either
side would take whatever opportunity
they reasonably could to throw mud at
the other the paper recently produced
this documentary about the origin of the
virus it pushed so many debunked
theories Facebook flagged it as false
information just this morning my friend
sitting in front of hospital waiting for
their mother-in-law for medical check-up
yelled and screamed you dirty Chinese
this advocate worries the papers
inflammatory headlines hurt all
Canadians because this perception that
Chinese equals fibers is already quite
prevalent in the Canadian society in an
email the epoch times acknowledged some
people may have erroneously conflated
criticism of the Chinese Communist Party
with criticism of the Chinese people but
said the party does not represent
Chinese people when asked the paper
didn't say once stamps it could take to
quell the fears of Asian Canadians
afraid its headlines could make them
targets of hate
Katie Nicholson CBC News Toronto here's
a question for you how much are you
driving lately and are you still paying
the same for car insurance if driving is
down by 50%
accidents are down at 50% we should be
passing on the savings
up next the calls for insurance
companies to pony up pandemic rebates
and we focus on seniors they've been at
the center of this pandemic story
tonight they're at the center of our
coverage beginning with their questions
for our experts what steps are being
taken for people my age who are thinking
of moving into a nursing home we're back
into
well anyone venturing out in the age of
kovat 19 will tell you some roads and
highways are virtually empty so why are
many Canadians still paying the same
premiums for car insurance
Aaron Saltzman takes a look I'm only
going to the grocery store about his
company completely shut down these days
James Downey's truck rarely leaves the
driveway yeah he just found out his
insurance is going up by 20% retroactive
to January I'm at a spot where I can
afford it I think for the next little
while but I know a lot of people I work
with cants down he's insurer the
co-operators says the increase was
decided upon prior to the pandemic and
reflects the claims experience the
company has seen over the last several
years co-operators is now offering a ten
percent rebate to all its drivers but
that's after the 20 percent hike with
fewer people on the road due to kovat 19
and fewer collisions the insurance
industry had pledged to pass on the
savings to drivers there's no question
that that risk profile that insurers
used months ago to establish the preview
has gone down and and so there's a need
to reflect that public insurers and many
companies are offering across-the-board
refunds for all their customers whether
they're driving less or not but some of
Canada's biggest insurance companies are
only cutting premiums if people are
driving less reducing coverage or upping
their deductible options that are
generally available pandemic or not
canada's insurance dispute resolution
service says it's getting complaints
about the lack of rebates
it also says some companies may not be
in a position to offer them if an
insurer has a huge loss ratio and is not
making as much money you might not get
the same rebate as a small of insurer
say that's making much less claims and
before the epidemic Ontario's NDP is
calling on the government in that
province to force insurers to cut all
premiums by half for three months if
driving is down by 50%
if accidents are down at 50% we should
be passing on the savings drivers he
says should get the benefits of driving
less not insurance companies Aaron
Saltzman CBC
Terron among those most affected by the
illness by financial uncertainty and by
loneliness from covin 19 our seniors
next on the national we're putting our
focus on those hit hard by the pandemic
our doctors and sir seniors questions if
we physical distance is it okay to have
friends kids and grandkids over for
visit in the backyard plus an inside
look at the strain seniors doctors are
facing we're all working double hours
now and veterans give us their advice
for this historic moment the saying is
there little peep calm and coming home
special coverage starting right after
this
[Music]
welcome back when it comes to
understanding the impact of covin 19 one
group has been hit especially hard in
Canada seniors and they remain the most
vulnerable so tonight we're focusing our
special coverage on them we'll look at
the new challenges their doctors are
facing and some of the extreme measures
families are taking to see their loved
ones but first let's hear from Canadian
seniors directly and put their questions
to our panel of doctors with me tonight
is dr. Samir Sinha director of
geriatrics at the University Health
Network in Toronto and dr. Nathan Stoll
geriatrician at Mount Sinai in Toronto
thank you both for being here so we have
a whole bunch of questions the first one
comes from grace and let's have a look
I'd like to know what steps are being
taken for people my age who are thinking
in their future of moving into a nursing
home or having care in my own home in
light of what's happening right now in
nursing homes okay it's a big decision
dr. Sinha can you start us off yeah I
think a lot of Canadians right now are
really nervous about what my future care
needs might look like and is it safe to
be in a nursing home and I think right
now there's a lot of work going on to
save as many live but also to think
about how we might have to rethink our
models and provide more home-based care
that's actually safer and more in line
with what people like grace to want okay
next up we have a question from Corey I
have well-managed type-2 diabetes I'm
wondering why I'm at greater risk for
cold at 19 is it my age is it my illness
or is it a combination of both okay dr.
stall that one's intended for you yeah
so it's probably a little bit of both
but what's really important to recognize
when we're talking about levels of risk
when it comes to copa90
is that it's not just chronological aids
itself and it's not just the presence of
comorbidities I'm sure we all know
someone who's a nine-year-old who's in
great health and great function and
unfortunately probably know someone
who's 60 years old who is in less good
health and less good function so it's a
bit about moving beyond just
logically and similarly when you speak
about diabetes there are people who have
well controlled diabetes like Corey and
hopefully a lack of end-organ
complications like heart disease and so
simply considering the presence of the
comorbidity doesn't give us the entire
level of risk and we need to think a
little bit about how advanced the
disease is when we're talking about
coping might be risks you can certainly
understand the how frightened people are
these are good questions up next we have
a question from Vivian why is Ontario so
slow to test all seniors and care
workers in nursing homes dr. Sen how
that one's for you yeah no I think
everyone's thinking that we be testing
everyone as soon as possible especially
when 90% of our desk right now in
Ontario are in these homes themselves
but the challenges that we only have so
much testing capacity with only about
14,000 tests today and a 144,000 people
in care who are focused right now in
Ontario and other places this test as
many people as possible in homes where
there are outbreaks and then start doing
surveillance testing other places though
we're trying to really manage our
testing capacity as best as possible
that we can try and catch up and even
stay ahead of this virus
okay our next question comes from Jim my
question is that if I have to go to the
hospital how do I make sure I'm not
triage as an expendable since I'm over
80 years of age okay that is a
completely heartbreaking question dr.
stall yeah so one of the things that's
very important to recognize is that the
success of our physical distancing in
Canada has meant that we have not
reached the surge levels and our acute
and critical care systems that we
thought we might have and so these
criteria and I will say that none of
them in Canada proposed using
chronological age as the criteria but we
have not had to use those criteria to
allocate scarce medical resources
because we have not reached surge
criteria now other jurisdictions like
the United Kingdom have developed
similar criteria for the allocation of
scarce medical resources and mechanical
ventilators would be one of those
intensive care unit beds would be
another and instead of using
chronological age other criteria are
applied
that would be how advanced underlying
chronic conditions are or when it comes
to aging
they've invoked a condition called
frailty which is a condition of a
reduced function and health and older
individuals so simply the use of
chronological age in and of itself is
not something that's involved in those
criteria but I'm really hopeful based on
the success we've had as a country and
flattening the curve that these criteria
will never have to be used okay our last
question which is when so many people
are asking comes from market if we
physical distance is it okay to have
friends kids and grandkids over for
visit in the backyard or the driveway
okay so before you answer this doctors
we know that circumstances are different
in every province and people obviously
should first and foremost follow the
public health guidelines where they live
but you could both have a look at this
doctor sitting on how would you answer
that one you know this is the tricky one
right because we're all a bit stir-crazy
right now we want to go and see our
friends then we say well you know the
wall place safe the challenge that we're
having right now is that especially
young grandchildren they don't
understand principles of physical
distance thing they want to hug grandma
and and this is where people sometimes
don't get it right and that's how the
virus actually gets us all right doctors
thank you both very much as always and
as we've mentioned we will be asking
your questions about kovat 19 every
night going forward so please send us
the questions you have you can message
us directly on instagram at CBC the
national or you can send us an email at
covent at cbc.ca next on the National
dr. Sinha is back he gives us a
first-hand look at what his long days at
a busy Toronto hospital look like plus
the man who got a job in a long-term
care home just so he could be close to
his mom but first a little music goes a
long way and if you're lucky it comes to
you just as it did for these residents
at a retirement home in Toronto what
started as a creative solution to the
Cova 19 restrictions is now a weekly
outdoor concert the audience on their
balconies the staff and health care
workers looking up and the music
bringing everyone together
[Laughter]
welcome back to our special seniors in
kovat 19 coverage you may know it
yourself the pain of being separated
from loved ones and long-term care in
tonight's pandemic diary the story of
one man who took a job to be closer to
his mom hi my name is Brian Corcoran I'm
45 years old and I recently started
working as a unit aide in a long-term
care facility that is in the midst of a
fight against Cove in 19 it is the
long-term care facility that my mother
is at she's on the third floor kornpett
units we had been restricted from
visiting for about two weeks I applied
for a job and less than 24 hours later I
had completed training and was starting
my first shift working on my mother's
floor first stop take your temperature
I am feeling stressed I'm feeling
nervous I also feel the satisfaction
that in some small way shape or form I
am participating and I'm helping what
keeps me up at night is the idea of
introducing the coronavirus into the
long-term care facility all the more so
because my mother is among the residents
that I care for what really gives me
hope is the people that I am working
with the employees deserve more credit
than we could ever possibly give them
doctors are also having to adapt and
change how they interact with their
elderly patients so to better understand
those challenges we handed things over
to dr. Samir Sinha here his here is his
own behind-the-scenes look at how Kovac
19 has affected his job so it's just
after 6:00 a.m. and I'm driving it to
work I usually take my bike with the
bike share program or take the TTC
if I protect my health and my co-workers
the safest thing I can do is to drive
I'm dr. Samir Sinha and I'm a
geriatrician and the director of
geriatrics at Sinai Health System and
the University Health Network in Toronto
I'm going to take you through a day of
what it's like for me working now amid
this new reality I do a lot of like
business now virtually but I'm here with
Vincent who actually runs our outpatient
lab and Nancy I'm seeing my patients
over the phone or through video chats
they're not coming here where they
usually get their blood work what do you
see that we are seeing very few patients
now and it does have it's quite
concerned
we don't know if they are actually it's
a big issue
what there's been no typical day has
since this pandemic began we're all
working babble hours now and just trying
to do the best we can support our
patients in and outside the hospital
this week I've been focusing on calling
all my patients and using either the
phone the good old telephone or at using
video links for those who are a little
bit more tech-savvy
just to make sure people are okay and
that they're getting the support they
need okay in terms of your mom send your
single application do you have any
questions yeah no good question actually
so the Ministry of long-term care just
passed emergency regulations just a few
weeks ago just to say that in families
like yours if you do get it by to offer
traditionally if you turned it down
you would be struck off the list but if
your family says just not right now can
we hold off until the pandemic ends
they'll actually hold a better offer so
you won't lose your place in line and
then you can decide when it's right for
mom to go in
typically 16 to 18 hour days one of the
last cars that a lot at night it's been
another productive day but what always
keeps me up at night is wondering
whether I could have done anything more
still had on the national tips on how to
handle all of this from those who have
lived through big moments in history you
know this is just like the beginning of
the world to advise you don't want to
miss in our moment
well they were just starting to make a
new life in Canada when the pandemic
changed everything
housing jobs support suddenly a lot
harder to come by
Laura Lynch looks at how refugees are
coping with kovat what's normally a
skiers dream no lift lineups untouched
Hills is now part of the nightmare in
Whistler the coronavirus has shut down
the village it's empty of both tourists
and laid off workers but for some it's
also torn apart the promise of a new
life in a new land I was really happy
that day Syrian refugee Hamza illness
and his partner Yulia found jobs at a
hotel shortly after arriving here in
January just over a month later the
virus shredded the economy lost our jobs
unfortunately and the house we're
leaning also is with that comes with the
job
but we have to leave the house as well
now he can't sleep has panic attacks
he says it's as if he's back in war-torn
Syria it really triggers a lot of things
it's like it scares me a lot so I think
that's why it triggers the anxiety in me
I'm dr. Ashida
that vulnerability is what concent
refugees apart in this pandemic many
people have lived through horrific
trauma so you know we see people who
have lived through torture and war been
estranged from family sometimes they've
seen family members killed the anxiety
may be even worse for refugees who
arrive unable to speak English or French
like the six recently arrived families
living in temporary housing here in
Vancouver we'd love some leads on on for
these families to be able to transition
out of our temporary facility where
they've been for two three four months
now into permanent housing there is one
refugee who probably knows more than
most about dealing with isolation Syrian
Hasan Alcantara attracted global
attention when he was stuck in the
arrivals hall at the airport in Kuala
Lumpur for eight months
welcome to Canada just over a year ago
he is also living in Whistler he's also
lost his job he's living alone in the
resort spa where he used to work I have
an experience from it's not my first
time but this time it's a piece of cake
much easier - he says than surviving war
you need to know how we lived as Syrians
for the last nine years we used to play
with this we were living on the edge our
contour has started decidedly low-tech
cooking classes on his Facebook page
a way he says to share a message of
resilience with other refugees and
Canadians in general to tell them that
this is a temporary thing we can get
through it they need to be patient they
need to think as a Syrians to be calm
and to live day by day and so everyone
waits for this village to return to its
vibrant normal but for some it also
means waiting to truly start over in
their new country Canada Laura Lynch CBC
News Whistler next on the national
advice from people who have lived
through some of history's most difficult
moments but first our kovat 19 how-to
guide tonight advice for those of us who
already sometimes have trouble breathing
even while we're healthy I have asthma
am i more susceptible to Kovac 19
there's no evidence that you're more
likely to catch the virus if you have
asthma you're probably not more likely
but it's probably quite likely that if
you do catch it you'll have a more
severe form of that infection because we
know that asthma tends to flare up when
people get viruses that's one of the
common reasons people have asthma
flare-ups and often end up in the
emergency room and the bad news doesn't
in there unfortunately there are open
questions about whether in severe cases
of kovat 19 even after a patient
recovers there may be long-term damage
scar tissue in the lungs making it
harder to breathe so if you have koga 19
as the virus that's going to be causing
that flare-up you may well have a more
severe infection because of the asthma
so as with any at-risk group where the
stakes are potentially that much higher
keep your physical distance from other
people wash your hands and don't touch
your face
these three seniors are Second World War
veterans they have lived through some of
the most challenging times in the last
century and because of the history
they've witnessed they're pretty well
equipped to offer advice during the
history we're now living through and
that is our moment I was sitting there
looking out the window and I thought you
know this is just like the beginning of
World War two you don't know what's
going to happen it looks like we're in
real deep trouble you hope for the best
my whole life has been a learning
experience and I think I learned a lot
in the war about the need for being kind
to people I think that if we should pay
more attention to one another
you kind of get wrapped up your own
little world and you never think about
all the ones that are much worse off
than you are and it should bring people
closer together
we're all the same boat but not just a
lung town here or another town somewhere
else or another country somewhere else
I've got this it's a whole world so
we're all the same we're all together in
it there's a saying is you'll keep calm
and carry on no I want you to do another
number saying this two more pass and it
will pass and you know Adrienne those
are striking words this too will pass
except it is so hard in the moment to to
believe it but but but of course she's
right of course and listen there's a lot
we can learn from those folks we must
one thing I'm always curious about is
why do people serve when they did and
our producer as Bob why he served and he
said that as a teenager neither like his
boss at General Electric electric sent
to heck with it and signed up that is a
national for Wednesday April 29th
[Music]
you